You saw in the previous example a case where
your X variables were correlated with one another.
This can lead to flipped regression coefficients from the expected relationships,
and inaccurate hypothesis testing results.
We want X variables to be related to Y,
but when the X variables are related to one another these results can be very misleading.
You saw that two ways you might identify multicollinearity are
with a Scatterplot Matrix or with Variance Inflation Factors,
or VIFs for short.
A quick check of having large VIFs.
A rule of thumb is that if you have larger than ten for a VIF,
then you have multicollinearity in your model.
VIF for a particular variable is computed as one over one minus R squared,
where the R squared is computed as the R squared for
that X variable being predicted by all the other X variables.
Therefore, if the X is highly related to the other variables this portion increases,
which decreases the entire denominator and increases the VIF for that term.
You can imagine that it's unusual to find only one large VIF in a model,
because if two or more X variables are related to one another,
you would expect each of these variables to have a high VIF.
The most common way to work with variables that are correlated in regression,
is to remove the one or ones that are of least interest.